Welcome, everyone.
In this update, I thought we might reflect on Jehovah's goodness and the way he's been
guiding his people during the pandemic.
I'm sure we all agree with the words of the Psalmist found at Psalm 27 and verse 13,
where would I be if I did not have faith that I would see Jehovah's goodness in the land
of the living?
Where would I be?
That's something to think about, isn't it?
How grateful we are to be associated with Jehovah's organization and to benefit from
its direction and guidance, especially when we see where we could be in the confused
and divided world around us.
With your eyes of faith, do you see Jehovah as directing his people today?
Now we know he's interested in our spiritual well-being, but what about our physical well-being,
our health?
Does he care about that?
If he does, will he make sure that we get good advice, even on health matters?
To answer that, let's consider the promised Jehovah made as found at Psalm 32 and verse
8.
We know well, but let's look at this from another perspective.
This is Psalm 32 and verse 8.
He says, I will give you insight and instruct you in the way you should go.
I will give you advice with my eye upon you.
So here's a promise, the Jehovah will give us the advice we need, but advice on what
subject?
Think back to the days of Israel.
Was Jehovah interested in the health and safety of his people back then?
He certainly was.
He instructed the Israelites to quarantine the sick.
He told them not to eat unclean birds and animals because doing so could have been harmful
for their health.
And he insisted that they build a parapet around the flat roof of their homes, so no one
would fall off.
He loved his people.
He wanted them to be safe.
Jehovah hasn't changed.
He still cares about the health and safety of his people.
Now in the Psalm we just read, he promised to give us insight, instruction and advice.
How does he do that today?
He does it by means of his organization.
In some countries, there's been considerable confusion and disagreement over how to deal
with the pandemic.
Some chave at the idea of wearing masks, and they refuse to practice physical distancing
even when these precautions are required.
A reminder to Paul's words at 1 Corinthians 14 and 33.
Remember that one?
God is not a God of disorder, but of peace, the Bible says.
The disorder we see in the world is proof positive that Jehovah is not with them.
But from Jehovah's organization, we've had clear direction from the very beginning.
And we thank Jehovah for it.
For example, think of the information we've received through recent governing body updates.
This is evidence of Jehovah's love and direction, his goodness.
In last month's update, Brother Lat made a very important point.
He reminded us that the information we're receiving regarding the pandemic is prepared
by faithful brothers.
We can trust them.
They aren't motivated by some personal view or political agenda.
They love us.
They want the best for us.
I hear someone ask, what do they know?
Wrong question.
I think the right question is, what does Jehovah know?
It comes down to this, friends.
Do I really believe that Jehovah is directing this organization today?
Do I believe that Jehovah will give insight to his faithful people so they can remain
in the land of the living, as the Psalmist said?
To repeat the question we often raise in field service, does God really care?
Would Jehovah allow the governing body, the helpers, missionaries, huge percentage of
the worldwide Bethel family and other full-time servants to engage in practices or receive
a COVID-19 vaccine that would be harmful?
Surely, Jehovah wants the brothers at World Headquarters to continue providing spiritual
food.
He wants to make sure that the work continues at our branch offices and in the field.
To do that, we have to be in the land of the living.
And what about the prophecy that a great crowd, which no man can number, will come out
of the great tribulation?
Our God is definitely not like Pharaoh, who wanted to kill off an entire generation
of Jehovah's worshipers.
We are convinced that Jehovah cares about the health and safety of his people, and that
he will guide us, saying in effect, this is the way, walk in it, your people.
When we embark on a certain course, we always look for evidence of Jehovah's blessing
to see whether we're on the right track or not.
So has Jehovah blessed our efforts during this pandemic?
Yes, indeed.
Well, of course, the pandemic has slowed activities for many of our brothers, especially
in areas without good internet connections.
Think of everything you've accomplished in recent months.
Many congregations are reporting record attendances at our virtual congregation meetings.
Inactive ones are returning to Jehovah, and how we thank God for that.
Our memorial attendance for 2021 reached an all-time peak of 21,367,603.
And many branches have reported new all-time peaks in the number of publishers, but that's
not all.
You've shown exemplary concern and brotherly affection for one another, proving that
you truly are Christ's disciples.
We commend you most warmly.
Who can deny that Jehovah is blessing your work?
Consider what the Bethel family has been able to accomplish during the pandemic, only
with Jehovah's blessing.
We all appreciate our beautiful new publication and joy life forever.
That was a tremendous amount of work, involving hundreds of hours of overtime.
But that's not all that was accomplished during the pandemic.
What about the monthly broadcasts?
We never missed one.
Then there are the beautiful videos, our regional conventions, the Gilead graduations,
and the annual meetings.
All of this was possible because the Bethel family stayed healthy.
Many brothers and sisters have written to express appreciation for knowing what precautions
were taking at world headquarters.
Why?
Simple.
When you think of another group in Jehovah's organization that would be more at risk of
infection than the Bethel family, hundreds of us live together, work together, eat together,
share the same surfaces day in and day out.
So many brothers and sisters have concluded that what works for the Bethel family is likely
to work for them.
And now we're moving into another phase of the pandemic.
Wasn't it exciting to see the recent JW news article about the pilot program to resume
in-person congregation meetings in selected lands?
It's been a long time since we've been able to be together in person.
You might be wondering what led up to the pilot program?
Governing body committees have been prayerfully evaluating when and how to resume in-person meetings safely.
Earlier this year, it didn't seem to be the right time to start.
Vaccines weren't available in many lands.
Infectured rates were high, and the Delta variant was rapidly spreading.
But in September, the situation started to appear more hopeful, at least in some areas of the world.
In October, 17 branches were approved to participate in a pilot program to resume in-person congregation meetings.
These branches represent a variety of circumstances and continents.
Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North and South America.
Now the branch committees in all these countries need to consider carefully what the local government regulations are,
for such indoor gatherings as our congregation meetings.
The regulations vary from country to country.
You might be wondering, does this mean that Zoom is going away?
We're pleased to inform you that approval has been given for congregations in the pilot program
to have the option of holding hybrid meetings, where some attend in person at the Kingdom Hall,
while others are tied in via Zoom.
As of November 8th, 14 branches have already held their first meetings.
As you can imagine, our brothers and sisters were overjoyed to meet together again.
That's here from a few of them.
When it was announced at the midweek meeting that our congregation had been invited to hold
in-person meetings as part of a project, I was so happy that I jumped out of my chair for joy.
It was a tremendous emotion.
I couldn't believe it that it was actually happening all of a sudden out of nowhere.
We're coming back and we walk in the hall and you're like, these are all my brothers and sisters
and we're all together. You just felt like you were at home.
Being far back at the meetings, I feel like the fire is burning in my heart because of happiness.
It really felt good. It was lovely to see the brothers and sisters coming into the entrance
way and to greet them. It was so great.
I wanted to go and give somebody a very big hug, but since I couldn't,
I would go to mom and dad and hug them and say, this is for this person.
Being able to be at the Kingdom Hall, I had to pitch myself to make sure I'm not dreaming.
Many amohenel on the way there were really excited and when we finally went inside,
seeing the friends hugging them, it was really an indescribable feeling.
To hear the singing even with the mask on, it was really encouraging.
I love the singing. I think everyone got better over the 18 months so we got to practice. It was
beautiful. It felt like going home to my family. Being able to sing together with
brothers and sisters in person, being able to stretch my hand again, we all in our congregation
were delighted to be part of it. Being at home is more comfortable, but you can be distracted by
any little thing. But being here is much better because we pay more attention to the meetings.
I was baptized in 2020 during the regional convention. It's not over yet since I got baptized.
But this is my first time at the Kingdom Hall as a baptized brother.
Since it is my first time at the Hall in a meeting in person, I felt so happy and also nervous
because I had to meet the brothers and sisters in person.
I knew some of the older ones were a little bit apprehensive about coming to the meetings,
but there they were at the meeting, lawyer attending and they actually was a very encouraging
experience. Going back to the Kingdom Hall and seeing my brothers and sisters was something
so beautiful, hearing their voices live no longer from a computer, seeing their eyes sparkling
with joy, shiny with emotion made me feel an extraordinary emotion inside the heart.
The whole that has been taking good care of us through the governing body and now that we got
the chance to experience this, we're very thankful for the opportunity to serve Jehovah to meet
together. It's been very, very nice. Making together with brothers and sisters
is what Jehovah God wants. Jehovah created us for that, to be together, to live in unity.
It was an up building experience. It was beautiful because it strengthened the spirit of belonging
that we find only in Jehovah's people. And that's why I can only say thank you, thank you,
thank you Jehovah. Well, that was exciting, wasn't it? If you're like me, I'm sure we're all
anxious to get back to these in-person meetings. Based on the results of this pilot program,
we hope that additional congregations can be approved to resume in-person meetings in the months ahead.
In the meantime, we can continue to pray for Jehovah's guidance and blessing on these
arrangements. So, dear friends, let's keep focusing our eyes on the one who is invisible,
trusting that our God loves us and that he will never allow his people to come to harm.
May Jehovah continue to bless you all richly. From the world headquarters of Jehovah's
Witnesses, this is J.W. Braun Casting.